in this lesson we're going to explore
the functionality and usage of azure
distributed denial of service protection
there are many many different types of
distributed denial of service
attack these are basically designed to
take down your service now they use
different methods there are things where
i might use a volumetric
i.e i'm just going to bombard your
service with things like an icmp flood
maybe a udp flood there's just so much
traffic it soaks up all of the bandwidth
of your service
then there are things that target
particular protocols
so i'm offering there's a protocol that
maybe tcp or udp
that my application is using on top of
so here i might have malformed packets
that i'm going to send
a sin flood a king of death
i basically have something in my
operating system or intermediary layer
maybe a load balancer or a firewall that
has a set of resources to talk that
protocol
and with a protocol level type of attack
i'm basically going to exhaust those
resources so then it runs out of
resource and it can't respond
there's also things like application
type attacks
so this is where i'm looking at some
inherent weakness to my application
like http flooding a slow post a slow
read to make the application unavailable
to users so the whole point of this
is to break
my availability
i'm going to impact that
through these types of attacks
now when i think about my resources in
azure
all of them
are protected by a basic
distributed denial of service protection
so no matter what the resource
this public-facing resource has this
protection
but the challenge of this protection is
really designed to protect the azure
fabric
so it's designed to identify and protect
against huge scale attacks that's what
it's focused on
i cannot modify those thresholds i
cannot see metrics about it i cannot get
into insight about it it's there to
really protect the fabric that will give
me some benefit obviously
but if i have a very finite amount of
resource this may not kick in until way
before i've exhausted whatever i have
so then there's the concept remember we
have a virtual network
and i have resources within that virtual
network
that may use public ips
so if i have these public ips created
and are linked to some resource in the
virtual network
what i can actually do is i can create a
standard
distributed denial of service protection
plan
and then i can link the plan
to a virtual network and i can actually
link it to multiple
virtual networks so i can have another
v-net
and i could link it to that one as well
now obviously this is what i pay for i'm
paying for this enhanced protection
but what this enhanced protection
actually does is it's going to tune
itself it's going to use machine
learning
to tune what is my normal type of
interaction from me so i have adaptive
tuning
it's also going to give me very rich
reporting about what is happening
and i get metrics so if i have metrics
remember i can then use things like
azure monitor alerts to alert hey
there's some metric above a certain
number and then i can use action rules
to actually go and do something about
that
there's also the idea of rapid response
so if i am being attacked
what it will actually do is there are
humans i can talk to while the attack is
happening to help me
and there's also if i have auto scale
for my resources there's the idea of
kind of credits that i can get if this
didn't give me the right protection i
can prove hey i scaled out to 20
instances because there was this denial
of service attack actually happening
and if we go and look we can see exactly
the details of that standard protection
so it goes through
and it's showing me hey look
so this is what we get with the free
basic
and remember this is all i can do is if
i have a resource that does not exist
within a v-net i cannot apply standard
if it doesn't live within the v-net
so i get the active traffic monitoring
and always on detection and automatic
attack mitigations that's what i can do
but if i add standard
so i create the plan and link it to
the virtual network that has the
resource that links the public ip
then i get those availability guarantees
the cost protections i get those credits
migration policies tuned to the
customer's application so it learns
what's normal i get metrics i get alerts
i get reports i get flow logs and i get
that distributed denial of service rapid
response support
so i get all of those with that standard
and again the point is you would buy the
plan
and then a single plan can be used
across multiple subscriptions
and multiple virtual networks so that's
kind of the important point i buy the
plan and then i can link it to multiple
v-nets on multiple subscriptions now it
does cover up to 100 public ips
and then there's an additional cost for
resources beyond that hundred
so this is the goal of this distributed
denial of service protection
hey yes we get this basic one for any
public-facing azure resource but if i
want it to be more tuned more in line
with what my application normally sees
and i want maybe that better help i want
that insight i may want credit if
something doesn't go to plan then i buy
a standard plan and i link it to my
virtual network